>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna start doing
inserting things into the database.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna say
INSERT INTO whatever table that you wanna
insert into, INSERT INTO Artist, and
then you're going to give it a list of
values of that you're going to give it.
We're only going to give it one value
because there's only two values and
one of them is automatically
assigned which is the ID.
So I'm gonna say,
I want to put in a name but
as you might imagine if I had like genre,
year, number_of_band_members, right?
Like you would just do that here,
we'll only have name,
because that's the only
column that exists.
And we'll say values, and
whatever you want to insert into there.
I think it's a crying shame that
Radiohead is not in this list, so
I'm going to put in Radiohead, but feel
free to put in your favorite band, okay?
It didn't yell at me so that is sqlite way
of saying, yeah, sure, I did it, right?
Whatever you told me to do, I did it,
I'm not gonna tell you any
more about it than that.
What if I wanna see it?
Well, as you might imagine, you're
just gonna write another query, great.
WHERE name = 'Radiohead';
>> Brian Holt: You
can see there,
row number 276 is Radiohead.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, just to show you
something here cuz we're not gonna do it
with a table that has multiple values, but
I wrote a query like this here as well.
So INSERT INTO food (name,
food_group, color).
And then when you're doing VALUES,
it just matters the order,
that order, so the name, carrot,
food_group, vegetable, color, orange.
Just make sure that you follow
the same pattern, right?
If you switch vegetable and carrot,
it thinks the name is gonna be vegetable,
the food_group will be carrot,
which is incorrect, right?
So, the order is important there.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
this is just talking about quotes,
we already talked about
that a bit earlier.
Let's talk about updates.
So let's decide for a second that I
didn't want to do Radiohead instead,
I really actually wanted to do Daft Punk.
We're gonna do
UPDATE Artist SET name
= 'Daft Punk' WHERE
name= 'Radiohead'; okay?
>> Brian Holt: Again, by it not saying
anything, that's its way of saying like,
sure, cool, I did it, right?
So now if I go back and say,
by the all, you can just hit up,
just like in a terminal, and
it'll give you back old queries.
So I'm just gonna go update this
one to say instead of radiohead,
I'll say daft punk.
276, notice it's the same one, and
if I run the Radiohead one again,
notice that it doesn't get anything
'cause it updated the old one.
What do you think would happen if I
didn't put that where clause in there?
Let's see, not that, there we go.
So if I do UPDATE Artist SET
name = 'Daft Punk';
>> Brian Holt: SELECT FROM Artist.
>> Brian Holt: Everything
is now Daft Punk.
That is the only music
that we now have forever.
I'm not gonna complain too much.
Pretty funny, right?
Don't do that, by the way,
you just blew up your database.
There's not really a good way to recover
in SQLite, because they just again,
they don't include stuff like that.
So we really have to go get another
copy of the database if you follow
along with me.
I, knowing this, can just say git
checkout data, because I have it in git.
And now if I do select star from artist,
it knows everything's back
to normal again, right?
But be very careful with SQL because it
will do precisely what you tell it to do,
right?
It does not care,
it's like you want to update
literally everything to be Daft Punk?
Sure man, you're the boss, right?
So just be careful about that.
>> Brian Holt: We actually don't
talk about upserts in here,
you can also do upserts in SQLite,
where basically like if this exists,
then insert, if not, then create it.
Don't really need to talk
about that today, but
feel free to look into that yourself.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's insert back our Daft Punk.
>> Brian Holt: We're going to do that and
then
>> Brian Holt: All right, so now I have a
>> Brian Holt: There we go,
record 276 Daft Punk.
So we're gonna say UPDATE Artist SET Name
to another must be French techno band.
I'm just kidding, but I happened to
pick another French techno band,
so we want'Justice' WHERE
name = 'Daft punk'.
And then let's say you're not satisfied
with the fact that it doesn't
return anything.
You can say RETURNING whatever you
want that select statement to be.
So I'm just going to say RETURNING
star and now, I updated it and
now it gives me back
the new record as well.
Which can be helpful sometimes,
if you wanted to just do it like one go,
you don't want to do two
queries to get that.
That can be helpful as well.
I frequently will do that just when I'm,
you know, interacting with the CLI.
>> Brian Holt: RETURNING star and you
can just do like RETURNING name, right?
Or something like that.
That's
>> Brian Holt: And
again, I did this look,
It didn't complain cuz it was valid query.
Nothing would match this, right?
Because there's no Daft Punk
in the database, right?
And so I did RETURNING name.
It didn't do anything,
because nothing was updated, right?
So we returned the entire set
which was a set of zero, right?
Nothing in there.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's something to be aware of,
you do wanna understand sometimes if
your queries did anything or not.
Because if they're valid,
they will run and it won't complain.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we can do
a DELETE FROM Artist WHERE
name = 'Justice'.
And you can just end that query there and
again if it does anything,
it won't tell you, or
you can do RETURNING star here as well.
Returning works on deletes, but
you don't have to have it as well.
>> Brian Holt: And this will give
you back everything that it deleted.
And select star WHERE 'Justice'.
Not in there anymore.
So that is deletes.
>> Student 1: Where is sqlite
storing these data updates?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
So if I get out of my database here,
you can see I'm modifying
this file called data.db.
And if I just do an ls here, you can see
I have this data.db file right here.
If I do a git status?
Yeah, you can see it's modified,
because we've been working on this, right?
Since the original check into which
was just the original Chinook data.
Sqlite is a library for editing files
in a particular way that's stored in
a certain way that's compatible
with other sqlite databases.
It's not a server, right?
It's not doing of those things,
it's just modifying this file,
it's a library for
modifying these sqlite database files.
You can see here I'm actually
tracking my database data in git.
I'm gonna say that this is not
a normal pattern for the most part.
It depends totally on what your data is,
right?
This Chinook database is not very dynamic,
It's example, it totally makes sense that
I would track this in my database or
my git report because it's
not meant really to change.
But imagine if you have like
a Shopify storefront or
just like a normal storefront or
something like that.
And you're reading and
writing to a database in production,
that would mean that you would
have data in production.
Production that would mean your production
servers would have to check intogGit and
then push back into your git repos.
That feels really weird,
and I'm gonna say bad.
To me I wouldn't suggest doing that.
That it just kinda depends on your
tolerance for those kind of things,
and for pushing back into your git repo
and the potential for data loss, right?
Cuz imagine like your server goes down,
how long ago was your last check-in?
Was it a day?
Was it an hour?
Was it two months, right?
You would lose all that data.
So normally I wouldn't do that.
You might do something like where you're
running in like Kubernetes or Docker or
something like that.
And there's a shared volume maybe or
That feels weird too.
That's where you get into these like
weird problems with sqlite of like when,
how do you get all this into production?
Actually, the best way and
I'll show you here at the end,
is this thing called
light FS backups here.
Every time that you write
to the sqlite file,
it will stream off to another location.
So it's just basically like,
right to your database, and
then this gets streamed to
an S3 bucket somewhere.
That's how I would end
up choosing to do it.